# Conclusion

Our group started with the intention to look at social determinants of health and how that affects public health outcomes in the United States. Our data visualizations aimed to demonstrate geographical trends in SVIs, trends by state, as well as trends in SVI factors. By creating powerful data visualizations we displayed some of the factors that put communities at risk. We have worked to answer some of the inquiries from our initial intentions, but like any data science path, there are more questions that have come up in our research, and these questions can't be answered by merely one data set. Additionally, as the CDC has not published any additional information on SVIs since 2018, the information and trends from our dataset may have changed due to the onset of the pandemic
In the future, we hope to explore these trends with a more recent dataset. In addition, with the US's Census Expansion, we hope to use the data from the future census to explore and see if any trends of specific factors have changed. We also hope to explore SVI trends in relation to COVID-19, and potentially, we would like to expand our work to not solely focus on the US but worldwide.
Even though this dataset is from 2018, some of the trends in demographics we display are still relevant as demographic changes in regions of the United States are little. We hope that these types of visualizations can be a useful tool for public health officials to find and direct their work to the most vulnerable communities.

## Takeaways
1. By comparing on a state to state basis, we have compared the factors that affect the cumulative value of SVI.

2. Lastly, comparing counties within a state really opened our eyes to how much administration on a local level changes SVI outcomes and how vulnerable areas may or may not cluster, in short.

3. The budget and emergency response experience of a county determines its social vulnerability. Experiences are hard to obtain, so the easiest way to help communities to lower their social vulnerability is to provide more fund and indirectly lowers the below poverty rate, unemployment rate and etc.

The most important insight we have taken away is that more households in the United States need support and understanding of their unique setbacks. In other words, the biggest takeaway easily that by providing states and counties at the local level more funding, rates of social vulnerability can be handled.


## Implications
Our research has the power to bring attention to under-served counties and households. Overall, our research in this field has great implications for resource allocation, government policy, and even the cycle of poverty through the lens of public health. By estimating the needs of a population, public health authorities can be better prepared and at-risk populations can be supplied aid more efficiently. The health and well-being of communities in the United States should be a top priority at local, state, and national levels of governance.

## Limitations

Our project and its approach in a broad sense introduces several direct and indirect challenges. First, this project has the limitations and criticisms of any project that uses Census data. Any data that is survey data and only a sampling does not always represent the population as a whole. However, though we respect this possible criticism, Census data is widely used and we consider this data reliable. There were some very minor hiccups in the data set (such as values being not available), however we concluded that the data was credible, as it was coming from the census and being used by a governmental organization, Though, we are still "strangers" in this data set and very removed from its collection in some ways. In order to address this, our group has read the documentation provided from the CDC on the calculations it has done on raw variables from the Census Bureau. Broad, indirect challenges of this data science project include the speculation on the weight of certain factors in public health. For instance, policy-makers sometimes focus on poverty, unemployment, family planning, or infrastructure as ways to measure need in an area. Our project conglomerates many of these in our social vulnerability examination. The limitation of this data set beyond its scope is the lack of time series data, or data of these determinants year to year. While this might be too large of a data set to cover in this project, our group sees the limitations in this study as we cannot analyze trends over time, and conclude if social vulnerability is increasing or decreasing, which might be asked of us later in our research. We recognize that this project is not static in its creation and the data we use is dynamic in nature, as populations are. As researchers, we commit to working collaboratively to look for more challenges as they arise with our project.

# Thank you!
