# Summary and Insights

This data visualization was chosen so that the audience can gain an insight into the general vulnerability of their geographic area. By letting the user interact with the visualization in direct connection to their personal interest and curiosity, the hope is that this type of visualization can hold more influence.
Overall trends reveal that rural states have more counties that seem vulnerable, but there is still a high level of variance across individual states. This evidence is surprising and goes to show that many regions can be vulnerable due to a multitude of factors.
Another insight is that more regions have middle to high vulnerability than low vulnerability, and these areas which are less vulnerable can be isolated within states. Of course, each user will interact in a unique way with this page, which is what makes it so personalized and relevant, however, this makes overarching themes harder to discern. Democratic and Republican states were both shown to have diverse levels of social vulnerabilities. For instance, many counties of California are above 0.75 vulnerability and almost half of Texas's counties are at the same level. These states were also compared because they both face increased vulnerability due to natural disaster susceptibility. Another state of interest, Colorado seems to be relatively less vulnerable except for its southeast corner, which supports the previous hypothesis that these types of trends could cluster easily.
Overall, the biggest insight of these maps is that wealth, income, and standard of living inequalities across the United States are obvious and large. Wealthy neighborhoods can lives mere miles from areas in poverty and extreme vulnerability. States can have equal parts of their territory highly and barely susceptible. As costs of living are rising across the country due to inflation, and income inequality worsens with the disparage of unemployment, these maps tell a bigger story than just someone's hometown. These maps demonstrate the inequality of living in even a rich country like the United States, and inspire forward-thinking, structurally-focused reforms to handle these widespread, deeply troublesome issues.